docs: documenting using pymapdl on clusters (#3466)
ansys/pymapdl: doc/source/user_guide/hpc/pymapdl.rst

between the scheduler and MAPDL to read the job configuration and
launch an MAPDL instance that can use all the resources allocated
to that job.
For instance, if a SLURM job has allocated 8 nodes with 4 cores each,
then PyMAPDL launches an MAPDL instance which uses 32 cores
spawning across those 8 nodes.
This behaviour can turn off if passing the environment variable
:envvar:`PYMAPDL_ON_SLURM` or passing the argument `detect_HPC=False`
to :func:`launch_mapdl() <ansys.mapdl.core.launcher.launch_mapdl>`.

.. _ref_pymapdl_batch_in_cluster_hpc:

Submit a PyMAPDL batch job to the cluster from the entrypoint node
==================================================================

Many HPC clusters allow their users to login in a machine using
``ssh``, ``vnc``, ``rdp``, or similar technologies and submit a job
to the cluster from there.
This entrypoint machine, sometimes known as *head node* or *entrypoint node*,
might be a virtual machine (VDI/VM).

In such cases, once the Python virtual environment with PyMAPDL is already
set and is accessible to all the compute nodes, launching a
PyMAPDL job is very easy to do using ``sbatch`` command.

> No changes are needed on a PyMAPDL script to run it on an SLURM cluster.

Reviewer: Is mapdl server running on the head node or compute node in this case? I assume it is the compute node, but if so it should say this clearly here

Author: Got it.

.. _ref_hpc_pymapdl_job:

=======================

> PyMAPDL on HPC Clusters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PyMAPDL on HPC clusters
```

=======================

Introduction
============

PyMAPDL communicates with MAPDL using the gRPC protocol.

> This protocol offers many advantages and features, for more information
> see :ref:`ref_project_page`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This protocol offers the many advantages and features described in
see :ref:`ref_project_page`.
```

> One of these features is that it is not required to have both,
> PyMAPDL and MAPDL processes, running on the same machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of these features is that it is not required to have both
PyMAPDL and MAPDL processes running on the same machine.
```

> This possibility opens the door to many configurations, depending
> on whether you run them both or not on the HPC compute nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This possibility opens the door to many configurations, depending
on whether or not you run them both on the HPC compute nodes.
```

> Additionally, you might to be able interact with them (``interactive`` mode)
> or not (``batch`` mode).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, you might be able interact with them (``interactive`` mode)
or not (``batch`` mode).
```

> Currently, the supported configurations are:
> 
> * :ref:`ref_pymapdl_batch_in_cluster_hpc`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For information on supported configurations, see :ref:`ref_pymapdl_batch_in_cluster_hpc`.
```

Since v0.68.5, PyMAPDL can take advantage of the tight integration
between the scheduler and MAPDL to read the job configuration and
launch an MAPDL instance that can use all the resources allocated
to that job.
For instance, if a SLURM job has allocated 8 nodes with 4 cores each,
then PyMAPDL launches an MAPDL instance which uses 32 cores
spawning across those 8 nodes.

> This behaviour can turn off if passing the environment variable
> :envvar:`PYMAPDL_ON_SLURM` or passing the argument `detect_HPC=False`
> to :func:`launch_mapdl() <ansys.mapdl.core.launcher.launch_mapdl>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This behavior can turn off if passing the :envvar:`PYMAPDL_ON_SLURM`
environment variable or passing the ``detect_HPC=False`` argument
to the :func:`launch_mapdl() <ansys.mapdl.core.launcher.launch_mapdl>` function.
```

.. _ref_pymapdl_batch_in_cluster_hpc:

Submit a PyMAPDL batch job to the cluster from the entrypoint node
==================================================================

> Many HPC clusters allow their users to login in a machine using
> ``ssh``, ``vnc``, ``rdp``, or similar technologies and submit a job
> to the cluster from there.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many HPC clusters allow their users to log into a machine using
``ssh``, ``vnc``, ``rdp``, or similar technologies and then submit a job
to the cluster from there.
```

> This entrypoint machine, sometimes known as *head node* or *entrypoint node*,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This entrypoint machine, sometimes known as the *head node* or *entrypoint node*,
```

might be a virtual machine (VDI/VM).

In such cases, once the Python virtual environment with PyMAPDL is already
set and is accessible to all the compute nodes, launching a

> PyMAPDL job from the entrypoint is very easy to do using ``sbatch`` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PyMAPDL job from the entrypoint node is very easy to do using the ``sbatch`` command.
```

> Using ``sbatch`` command, the PyMAPDL runs and launches an MAPDL instance in
> the compute nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the ``sbatch`` command is used, PyMAPDL runs and launches an MAPDL instance in
the compute nodes.
```

No changes are needed on a PyMAPDL script to run it on an SLURM cluster.

First the virtual environment must be activated in the current terminal.

.. code-block:: console

    user@entrypoint-machine:~$ export VENV_PATH=/my/path/to/the/venv
    user@entrypoint-machine:~$ source $VENV_PATH/bin/activate

> Once the virtual environment has been activated, you can launch any Python
> script if they do have the proper Python shebang (``#!/usr/bin/env python3``).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the virtual environment is activated, you can launch any Python
script that has the proper Python shebang (``#!/usr/bin/env python3``).
```

> For instance, to launch the following Python script ``main.py``:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For instance, assume that you want to launch the following ``main.py`` Python script:
```

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: main.py

    #!/usr/bin/env python3

    from ansys.mapdl.core import launch_mapdl

    mapdl = launch_mapdl(run_location="/home/ubuntu/tmp/tmp/mapdl", loglevel="debug")

    print(mapdl.prep7())
    print(f'Number of CPU: {mapdl.get_value("ACTIVE", 0, "NUMCPU")}')

    mapdl.exit()

You can just run in your console:

.. code-block:: console

    (venv) user@entrypoint-machine:~$ sbatch main.py

> Alternatively, you can remove the shebang from the python file and use a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can remove the shebang from the Python file and use a
```

Python executable call:

.. code-block:: console

    (venv) user@entrypoint-machine:~$ sbatch python main.py

> Additionally, you can change the amount of cores used in your
> job, by setting the :envvar:`PYMAPDL_NPROC` to the desired value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can change the number of cores used in your
job by setting the :envvar:`PYMAPDL_NPROC` environment variable to the desired value.
```

.. code-block:: console

    (venv) user@entrypoint-machine:~$ PYMAPDL_NPROC=4 sbatch main.py

You can also add ``sbatch`` options to the command:

.. code-block:: console

    (venv) user@entrypoint-machine:~$ PYMAPDL_NPROC=4 sbatch  main.py

For instance, to launch a PyMAPDL job which start a four cores MAPDL instance
on a 10 CPU SLURM job, you can use:

.. code-block:: console

    (venv) user@entrypoint-machine:~$ PYMAPDL_NPROC=4 sbatch --partition=qsmall --nodes=10 --ntasks-per-node=1 main.py

Using a submission script
-------------------------

> In case you need to customize more your job, you can create a SLURM
> submission script to submit a PyMAPDL job.
> In this case, you must create two files:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need to customize your PyMAPDL  job further, you can create a SLURM
submission script for submitting it. 
In this case, you must create two files:
```

- Python script with the PyMAPDL code
- Bash script that activates the virtual environment and calls the

>   Python script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Python script
```

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: main.py

    from ansys.mapdl.core import launch_mapdl

    # Number of processors must be lower than the
    # number of CPU allocated for the job.
    mapdl = launch_mapdl(nproc=10)

    mapdl.prep7()
    n_proc = mapdl.get_value("ACTIVE", 0, "NUMCPU")
    print(f"Number of CPU: {n_proc}")

    mapdl.exit()

.. code-block:: bash
   :caption: job.sh

   #!/bin/bash
   # Set SLURM options
   #SBATCH --job-name=ansys_job            # Job name
   #SBATCH --partition=qsmall              # Specify the queue/partition name                  
   #SBATCH --nodes=5                       # Number of nodes
   #SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=2             # Number of tasks (cores) per node
   #SBATCH --time=04:00:00                 # Set a time limit for the job (optional but recommended)

   # Set env vars
   export MY_ENV_VAR=VALUE

   # Activating Python virtual environment
   source /home/user/.venv/bin/activate

>    # Calling Python script

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   # Call Python script
```

   python main.py

To start the simulation, you use this code:

.. code-block:: console

    user@machine:~$ sbatch job.sh

In this case, the Python virtual environment does not need to be activated
before submission since it is activated later in the script.

> The expected output of the job is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The expected output of the job follows:
```
